# Modeling Guide

In the **Modeling** stage, we want to create the base mesh of our model. *Quality here is important!* No matter how good your texturing, rigging, or animating, if your base mesh sucks, it'll look bad in Unity.

Don't stress too much about it though. Some things can be made up for in the **Texturing** stage, and if the model isn't going to be in the player's face/hands/eyes all the time, you don't have to worry too much about this.

## Terminology / Tips

If you're looking for guides, models are generally catagorized into two types:

1. Hard surface models are non-deforming models. Pretty much all non-living objects fall under the hard surface catagory.
2. Organic models are deforming models. Most living objects (people, animals) fall under this catagory.

When modeling **Hard Surface**, make use of auto smoothing. The bevel modifier with Harden Normals checked looks good at low  segment counts. Make sure your bevel modifier's segment count never goes above 1-2 segments. Also, it's perfectly fine to combine separate meshes into one object and clip them into each other. Most games do it, and it looks pretty good once textures are applied.

When modeling **Organic**, you'll have to use subdivision surface, shade smooth, and sculpting to achieve a good look. If your model is going to be animated, you'll also have to consider mesh deform quality when building out the pose of your model.

## Starting Your Model / Incoming Files

(Replace `ModelName` with your model's actual name.)

1. Ensure that your Blender version is `4.2.2 LTS` 
2. Ensure that you have installed all required plugins located in `astoria\blender-plugins\Required`. Read `Required Plugins README.md` for more details.
3. (optional) If you are modeling off a **Blockout**, move your blockout models to a separate collection. Name the collection `Blockouts`. Suffix each object in the collection with `_Blockout`. You can use Ctrl+F2 in the outliner for this.
4. If you haven't already, create a folder named `ModelNameResources` under `astoria\models-source\Resources`. This is the model's resources folder.
5. If using references (either objects or images), move them to the model's resources folder.
6. Import your references into Blender. Make sure your references are linked instead of embedded.

## Procedure

1. Create your base mesh. Name your object `ModelName_High`.
2. Improve that base mesh with detailing and/or sculpting.
3. If your model is made of multiple objects, combine them into one object with Ctrl+J.
4. Duplicate your model. Rename it to `ModelName_Low`.
5. Reduce the tri-count of the `ModelName_Low` object as much as you can. Remove faces that won't be seen, remove extra edges in flat faces, reduce bevels, etc.
6. Once you're done, move on to Next Steps.

## Next Steps

1. Once you're ready to make the final model, review the QA Check.
2. One more time, make *absolutely* sure your model meets the QA Check, then continue. THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR TEXTURING.
3. Save your blend file.
4. Commit to the repo with "Done with modeling for [model name]"
5. Save your blend file as `ModelName_Texturing` in `astoria\models-source\2 - Texturing`.
6. Commit to the repo with "Starting texturing for [model name]"
7. Don't delete this `ModelName_Modeling.blend` file. You might need it later.
8. Refer to Incoming Files in `Texturing README` for what to do next.

## QA Check

1. Is your model made up of multiple objects? If so, combine them into one object/mesh with Ctrl+J.
2. Are your meshes named after the part of the model they represent? You can see this by expanding the object in the outliner.
3. Is the tri-count reasonable? Make sure the reduced version has a tri-count that is representative of its size or importance.
4. Are most faces quads/tris? N-gons are okay, as long as they're completely flat or in hidden places.
5. Are there any shading errors that immediately show when using MatCap view?
6. Is scale applied? Make sure all scale readouts in object mode show `1, 1, 1`.
7. Is rotation applied? Make sure rotations show `0, 0, 0`.
8. If your model is one object, make sure to move it to the world origin with:
Shift+S -> Cursor To World Origin -> Click on your model -> Shift+S -> Selection To Cursor.
If this doesn't completely move it to the world origin, center it manually and apply position.
