# Blockout Guide

In the **Blockout** stage, our goal is to take a rough concept and turn it into an idea for a model. The rough concept could be drawings, gameplay requirements, or exported ProBuilder greyboxes from Unity, but they all need to be turned into an iterable, quality model.

If you already have a good idea of what the model should look like, skip this and go straight to **Modeling**.

## Incoming Files - Unity ProBuilder

(Replace `SceneName` and `ModelName` with their actual names)

Ideally, models should be reuseable across all kinds of scenes. But, if you're using Unity ProBuilder mockups/greyboxes and your mockup is a scene/set of models (Ex. Room containing Chair, Table, Desk):

1. Repeat steps 1-6 to split up the models into individual files.
2. Replace instances of `ModelName` with `SceneNameModelName` instead.

## Procedure

1. Ensure you're using Blender version `4.2.2 LTS`.
2. Open Blender and create a new empty blend file.
3. Save your file as `ModelName_Blockout` to `astoria\models-source\0.5 - Blockout`.
4. Create a folder named `ModelNameResources` under `astoria\models-source\Resources`. This is the model's resources folder.
5. If using references (either Unity Probuilder FBX or images), move them to the model's resources folder.
6. Import your references into Blender. Make sure your references are linked instead of embedded.
7. Blockout! Experiment with what you want to make. You know you're in a good spot if you have a clear image of the final product in your head.
8. When you're done with the blockout, go to Next Steps.

## Next Steps

Once you're ready to make the final model:

1. Review the QA Check. Make sure your model meets it, then continue.
2. Save your blend file. Commit to the repo with "Done with blockout for Model Name"
3. Save your blend file to `astoria\models-source\1 - Modeling` as `ModelName_Modeling`.
4. Commit to the repo with "Starting modeling for Model Name".
5. *Leave the `ModelName_Blockout` file in this folder.* You might need it later.
6. Refer to Incoming Files in `Modeling README.md` for what to do with the modeling copy.

## QA Check

1. Is scale applied? Make sure all scale readouts in object mode show `1, 1, 1`.
2. Is rotation applied? Unless it's needed for the model, make sure rotations show `0, 0, 0`.
3. If your model is one object, make sure to move it to the world origin with:
Shift+S -> Cursor To World Origin -> Click on your model -> Shift+S -> Selection To Cursor.
If this doesn't completely move it to the world origin, center it manually and apply position.
4. Are there any lights, cameras, or other non-models in the blender file? If so, delete them.
