# Texturing Guide

In the **Texturing** stage, we'll be adding textures and details to our model. This is where 75% of the realism happens! Feel free to use references or outside textures to push it over the uncanny valley.

[This is a great example of **Texturing** a building from start to finish.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilaD-V8R1gI)


## Terminology / Tips

Generally, **Texturing** involves these elements:

1. UV Unwrapping
2. Procedural Texturing
3. Texture Painting

### UV Unwrapping

[Here's a video  overviewing the UV Unwrap process.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XleO7DBm1Us)

Here, we're trying to map the surface of the model to a 2D plane. The plane is given the axes U and V, which is why this process is called **UV Unwrapping**. There's a couple different methods to do this, all with varying quality. The better the quality your UV Unwrap, the more detail you can pack onto each face, and the more cohesive your models faces will look.

### Procedural Texturing

[Ryan King Art has some great tutorials on lots of different procedural textures.](https://www.youtube.com/RyanKingArt)

This is the process that we've been using in Blender. It uses nodes and noise maps to create textures for our models. On its own, it's not that great. But combined with **Texturing Painting**, it can look good, add cohesiveness to our models, and speed up the texturing process.

### Texture Painting

This is the main part of the process. Here, we take our procedural textures and paint them onto our model. This gives each model a unique character; the mix of different materials & dirt makes them seem more real. See the overview video for more info.

## Incoming Files

1. Name your blend file `ModelName_Texturing`
2. Ensure QA Check of last step was completed. QA here is vital for the texturing workflow.
3. Create a folder named your model's name in the Resources folder. Here, put any images, outside textures,
4. and references you might need to use. Make sure your blend file references the files in that folder only. Never import an image from anywhere else. Only in the corrosponding resources folder.

## Procedure

UV unwrap your models. If you don't know how to do this, look it up on YouTube for some great guides.
Either import materials from outside sources or create your own procedural ones. MAKE SURE TO PUT IMPORTS
IN YOUR MODEL'S RESOURCES FOLDER. Texture Paint those materials on your model and add decals, wear, etc.
Use Eevee to preview your model. Eevee's rendering style is closer to what it'll look like in Unity.
When you're done texturing, complete Next Steps.

## Next Steps

1. Create a folder in your model's resources file called "PreExportTextures".
2. Ensure that your model meets the Textured QA Check.
3. Commit to the repo with: "Finished texturing for [Model Name]"
4. Bake the textures. If you don't know how to bake in blender, look it up online first. 
   Make sure to bake at resolutions that make sense. If you're modeling a small prop in a room,
   you want 1024x1024 or 2048x2048 resolution textures.
   But if you're modeling up close weapons or viewmodels, use 4096x4096 or even 8192x8192 resolution.
   Then, bake out these texture maps. 
   Make sure to COMMIT AND PUSH to the repo for EACH texture map, with "Baked [MapType] for [Model Name]".
   Save them to PreExportTextures, and name them "ModelName_MapType". Ex: TallCup_Normal.
   -Diffuse
   -Normal
   -Metallic
   -Roughness
   -Ambient Occlusion
   -Displacement/Height
5. Ensure your model meets the Baked QA Check.
6. If your model doesn't need to be animated, proceed to step 7. Otherwise, skip past to step 8A.
7. Make a copy of your blend file to the Export to Unity folder. Refer to the Incoming section
   in Export To Unity README for what to do next. 
8A.

Textured QA Check:

Baked QA Check: